# sketch2image

## Overview

This project aims to convert room interior sketches into realistic images using deep learning models, specifically leveraging the Pix2Pix architecture.Additionally, it includes a mode for converting images to sketches.  The main components of this project include a Dockerized Streamlit application for running the model inference and various Jupyter notebooks for data preparation, augmentation, scraping, and model training.

## Project Structure

```cmd
.
├── Dockerfile
├── docker-compose.yaml
├── LICENSE
├── README.md
├── app
│   ├── app.py
│   ├── checkpoints
│   ├── config.py
│   ├── models.py
│   ├── requirements.txt
│   ├── temp_images
│   └── utils.py
└── notebooks
    ├── data_retrieval
    │   ├── readme.md
    │   └── scraper.ipynb
    ├── image_processing
    │   ├── data_filter.ipynb
    │   ├── im2sketch.ipynb
    │   └── readme.md
    ├── model_training
    │   ├── pix2pix_train.ipynb
    │   └── readme.md
    └── vae_training
        ├── mnist_vae_architecture.ipynb
        ├── readme.md
        └── vae_for_synthetic_data.ipynb
```

## Prerequisites
To run the application, you need to have Docker installed on your system.

## Running the Application

1. Clone the repository to your local machine.
2. Build the Docker images using Docker Compose:
```
docker compose build 
```
OR 

```
docker-compose build 
```

3. Start the application
```
docker compose up
```
OR
```
docker-compose up
```
**Note**: Before running the application, ensure you have set the correct path to your `checkpoints` directory in config.py.

## Configuring Checkpoints
The application requires checkpoints generated by the Pix2Pix training script. The path to these checkpoints should be specified in `app/config.py`. The default structure assumes the checkpoints are mounted correctly within the Docker container.

## Project Components

### Streamlit Application
Located in the `app` folder, the Streamlit application (`app.py`) is the main interface for users to convert sketches to images. This folder also contains utility scripts, the model definition (`models.py`), and a temporary storage for images (`temp_images`).

### Checkpoints

The `checkpoints` directory contains pre-trained model weights for Pix2Pix. Ensure your checkpoints are placed correctly or update the path in `config.py`.

### Notebooks
The `notebooks` directory contains several subdirectories, each focused on different aspects of the project:

- **data_retrieval**: Contains notebooks for scraping and retrieving data.
- **image_processing**: Contains notebooks for data filtering and converting images to sketches.
- **model_training**: Contains notebooks for training the Pix2Pix model.
- **vae_training**: Contains notebooks for training VAE models, including architectures and synthetic data training.